# Pairing SDK

###Description

Pairing API is a lightweight API for establishing an encrypted, protocol-agnostic communication layer between peers. Its purpose is to provide a secure channel for proposing protocols or sending requests between dapp and wallet.

###Context

WalletConnect offers Sign, Auth, and Push Protocols. To allow a reusable communication channel between peers, the Pairing API exposes a standard interface and allows for sending and receiving multi-protocol requests over a single pairing.

## Pair Configuration

Create an AppMetadata object. It will describe your application and define its appearance in a web browser.
Then configure the Pair instance with a metadata object you have instantiated.

```swift
let metadata = AppMetadata(name: <String>,
                           description: <String>,
                           url: <String>,
                           icons: <[String]>)

Pair.configure(metadata: metadata)
```

## Pairing Wallet Usage

In pair wallet with dapp, the user needs to scan a QR code or open a deep link generated by dapp, then instantiate `WalletConnectURI` from the scanned QR code string and call the `pair()` function as follows.

```swift
let uri WalletConnectURI(string: <String>)
try! await Pair.instance.pair(uri: uri)
```
Now wallet and a dapp have a secure communication channel that will be used by top level APIs.

## Pairing Dapp Usage

In order to pair dapp and a wallet, dapp needs to generate and share a uri with wallet. 
To generate a uri call `create()` function on Pair instance as follows.

```swift
let uri = try await Pair.instance.create()
```
Now you can share the uri with the wallet.
